README.md, before:

# Automated lab environment creation
This project uses ansible and selenium to create, delete, and extend life of most used labs in rol.redhat.com:
  - rh124-8.2
  - rh134-8.2
  - rh294-8.4
  - rh199-8.2 
  - do180-4.6
  - do280-4.6
  - do288-4.6

## Requisites
- nodejs
`$ sudo yum install -y nodejs`
- selenium-side-runner
`$ npm install -g selenium-side-runner`
- chrome/chromium browser
- [chromedriver](https://sites.google.com/chromium.org/driver/downloads?authuser=0)

Make sure that you install the same version for chrome browser and chromedriver
``` 
[carias@carias ~]$ google-chrome-stable --version
Google Chrome 93.0.4577.63
[carias@carias ~]$ chromedriver --version
ChromeDriver 93.0.4577.63 (ff5c0da2ec0adeaed5550e6c7e98417dac77d98a-refs/branch-heads/4577@{#1135})
[carias@carias ~]$
```

## Setup
Create a credentials.yml file with your rol.redhat.com credentials
```
$ cd rol-lab-persistence/
$ ansible-vault create credentials.yml

---
username: "youruser@redhat.com"
password: "yourpassword"
``` 

Create a file with your ansible vault password and protect it from others.
``` 
$ echo "vault_password" > ../vault
$ chmod 600 ../vault
``` 

Customize the environment (rol or rol-stage) and courses in the create/delete.yml vars section.
```
- name: ROL labs launcher
  hosts: localhost
  vars_files: credentials.yml
  vars:
    - lab_environment: "rol"
    - course_id: 
        - "rh124-8.2"
        - "rh134-8.2"
        - "rh294-8.4"
```

Run the playbook.
``` 
$ ansible-playbook create.yml --vault-password-file ../vault

``` 


Another option is to override the vars by using the extra-vars parameter.
```
$ ansible-playbook delete.yml --vault-password-file ../vault \ 
     --extra-vars='lab_environment=rol-stage' \
     --extra-vars='{"course_id": ["rh124-8.2", "rh134-8.2"]}'
```

## Recommendations
- The *create.yml* playbook will also increase the *Auto-destroy* box of the lab to the maximum available (usually 14 days), so it's recomended to create a cronjob that runs at least every 2 weeks.
- Sometimes labs get stuck and don't stop, so it's important to keep an eye on the *Lab hours used* counter to detect any abusive usage.

Commit message:

Added instructions to build EE and execute with ansible-navigator

README.md, after:

# Automated lab environment creation
This project uses ansible and selenium to create, delete, and extend life of most used labs in rol.redhat.com:
  - rh124-8.2
  - rh134-8.2
  - rh294-8.4
  - rh199-8.2 
  - do180-4.6
  - do280-4.6
  - do288-4.6

## Requisites
- podman 
Can be installed without root from the Internal Software catalog in your RHEL 8 CSB distribution
- ansible-navigator
`pip3 install 'ansible-navigator[ansible-core]' --user`
```

## Setup
Create a credentials.yml file with your rol.redhat.com credentials
```
$ cd rol-lab-persistence/
$ ansible-vault create credentials.yml

---
username: "youruser@redhat.com"
password: "yourpassword"
``` 

Create a file with your ansible vault password and protect it from others.
``` 
$ echo "vault_password" > ../vault
$ chmod 600 ../vault
``` 

Customize the environment (rol or rol-stage) and courses in the create/delete.yml vars section.
```
- name: ROL labs launcher
  hosts: localhost
  vars_files: credentials.yml
  vars:
    - lab_environment: "rol"
    - course_id: 
        - "rh124-8.2"
        - "rh134-8.2"
        - "rh294-8.4"
```

Build the Containerfile for the Execution Environment of ansible-navigator
```
$ podman login registry.redhat.io
$ podman build -t rol-lab-persistence:v0.1 .
``` 

Run the playbook with ansible-navigator.
``` 
$ ansible-navigator run -m stdout create.yml --vault-password-file ../vault

``` 

Another option is to override the vars by using the extra-vars parameter.
```
$ ansible-navigator run -m stdout delete.yml --vault-password-file ../vault \ 
     --extra-vars='lab_environment=rol-stage' \
     --extra-vars='{"course_id": ["rh124-8.2", "rh134-8.2"]}'
```

## Recommendations
- The *create.yml* playbook will also increase the *Auto-destroy* box of the lab to the maximum available (usually 14 days), so it's recomended to create a cronjob that runs at least every 2 weeks.
- Sometimes labs get stuck and don't stop, so it's important to keep an eye on the *Lab hours used* counter to detect any abusive usage.
